If a person is committed to creating great things that bear fruit over the long term, bringing others on board is an essential task. In ignoring this task, they can bring about only two possible consequences: the project fails, or new endeavours must be refused. While the importance of hiring to the organisation is obvious (many meaningful things can only be done by a group), its importance to the individual person is more subtle. It requires the acknowledgement of personal limits. It has taken me some time.

I don't like job descriptions. I find them annoying to write, and I'm not really convinced they fulfil their purpose very well.

One alleged purpose is that they act as a reference to describe someone's job so that they know what it is. I don't think that they do this. I think that this is done by other social processes and references.

The more likely purpose is to serve as an advertisement. A perfect job advert would ensure that every plausibly suitable candidate applies, and no unsuitable candidates do. It would also ensure that those candidates get a good understanding of what being in the role would be like, what goals they would be tasked with achieving, what skills and aptitudes that might exercise, and what rewards it might offer. Beyond that it would also explain the process for selecting the right candidate and how to go about being selected.

If we wanted to get close, we might go through the following steps (for a moderately senior hire):

* What is the sphere of responsibility of this role?
* What are 2-3 key problems or tensions in this area right now?
* Imagining a great candidate, tell a story about how they tackle these problems.
* In this story, what result have they achieved?
* In this story, what talents and skills have they used to achieve this?
* Imagining this great candidate, what sets of experiences might they have had to gain these talents and skills?
* Imagining this great candidate, ask them "Describe to me the essence of your role?"
* Imagining this great candidate, what are they doing at the moment?

Now fill out a document with the following criteria:

* Purpose of the role
* Key responsibilities
* Key outcomes
* Interview criteria
* Interview process

I'm certain the above need a bit of adjustment.

Write this for the key roles: 
- [x] 1

Other two pending.
